<h1 id='REST-Private' class='section-subheader'>Private</h1>

# Orders

## Place a New Order

> **Place a post-only limit order to sell 10 ETH at 0.04.**

> Request

```json
{
  "product": "ETH-BTC",
  "side": "sell",
  "size": "10",
  "price": "0.04",
  "condition": "PO"
}
```

> Response

```json
{
  "id": "9d335cce-d581-45f6-8efc-bdab3d61c6e2",
  "product": "ETH-BTC",
  "type": "limit",
  "side": "sell",
  "size": "5.00000000",
  "price": "0.04",
  "condition": "PO",
  "filled": "0.00000000",
  "timestamp": "1511467005839.417"
}
```

### HTTP Request

**`POST /new-order`**

### Parameters

Name | Description
---------- | -------
product | A valid product
side | Can be `buy` or `sell`
type | Can be `limit` (default), `market`, `stop`, or `stop-limit`
size | \* Amount of base asset to buy or sell
funds | \* Amount of counter asset to buy or sell
price | \*\* Price of your order

\* `funds` must be specified for `buy` `market` and `buy` `stop` orders. In all other cases, `size` must be specified. Only one of `funds` or `size` can be set.

\*\* Price can be ignored for `market` orders, but is required for all other order types. For `stop` orders, this is the price at which the stop order triggers, otherwise known as the stop price.

As an alternative to market orders, you can use limit orders with price set deep in the opposite book. This allows you to set a size in base asset and a price, giving you an execution price guarantee.

A list of products can be found by querying the [`/products`](#products) endpoint.

#### Limit order parameters

For limit orders, you can specify an execution policy condition. This parameter is optional.

Name | Description
---------- | -------
condition | Can be `GTC` (default), `IOC`, or `PO`

`GTC` Good till cancelled orders will remain on the book until they're cancelled. This is the default order placement behavior.

`IOC` Immediate-or-cancel orders will only remove liquidity from the book. When submitted, the order will fill partially or fully and any outstanding amount that is not matched is cancelled, so that no part of the order appears on the book.

`PO` Post-only orders will only add liquidity to the book. If any part of the order results in taking liquidity, the order will be rejected and no part of it will execute.

#### Stop-limit order parameters

For stop-limit orders, `limit_price` must be specified in addition to the default request parameters.

Name | Description
---------- | -------
limit_price | The limit price of a stop-limit order

### Client order ID

You can send an optional `client_order_id` in your new order request. This field's value must be a UUID generated by you. It will be included in `received`, `open`, and `set` WebSocket events and can be used to track the state of your order.

### Order lifecycle

Your account must have sufficient balance to submit an order. An order that is successfully received by the matching engine will be marked as **received**. 

If any part of the order results in adding liquidity to the book, it will be marked as **open**. 

Stop orders do not appear on the book. A successfully submitted stop order will be marked as **set**.

An order that is completely filled and off the book will be marked as **done**.

### Response

An order accepted by the matching engine will be assigned an order `id` present in the response.

`filled` specifies the amount, in base asset, that was matched as a result of your order.

`timestamp` is the time your order was received by the matching engine.
